To start with the configuration of Suricata we need to go to the next directory `/etc/suricata/`. 
Here we do an `ls -la` to see all the directories existing in this path.
We going to see a file with the next name: `suricata.yaml`. In this file all the necessary configurations are made for the correct operation, configurations such as: 
- IP range that we want to be considered our local network.
- Know or define the place where the logs will be saved.
- Establish the network interface in which Suricata will perform their work.
## Custom rules

*Important: This step is only if you want to use custom rules

After understanding the format of the rules, you can create custom rules for this service if we so wish.

For this case/lab, I will create a new .rules file to create the custom rules. To do this, I will use the following command: 
```
touch /etc/suricata/rules/my.rules
```

This command will only create the file; This command will only create the file; if you want to edit the file, you can do so using
```
nano /etc/suricata/rules/my.rules
```

To use the rules we will create, we must modify the Suricata configuration file, `suricata.yaml`. In this file, we find the "rule files" section and change the path of the default directory where the rules are stored to our new path. In my case, it would be `/etc/suricata/rules`. Next, we must specify the name of the .rules files we create and that will be loaded when Suricata starts. 
```
rule-files:
   /etc/suricata/rules/my.rules
```

After modifying the suricata.yaml file, it is advisable to check for errors, for this you can use:
```
suricata -T -c /etc/suricata/suricata.yaml
```

Finally, once all the changes have been made, the service must be restarted.
```
sudo systemctl restart suricata
```
